User Guide v1.0 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

Introduction .................................................... 3 

Effects ............................................................... 46 

Box Contents ..................................................... 3 

Pad FX ................................................................... 47 

Flex Beat ................................................................ 50 

Support ............................................................... 3 

Knob FX ................................................................. 51 

Compressor .......................................................... 56 

Menus ............................................................... 57 

Input Configuration ............................................. 57 

Fader ...................................................................... 58 

Time Correct ......................................................... 59 

MIDI Configuration .............................................. 60 

Project ................................................................... 62 

Appendix ...................................................... 64 

Technical Specifications ................................. 64 

Trademarks & Licenses .................................. 66 

About This User Guide ..................................... 3 

Setup ............................................................... 4 

Firmware Updates............................................. 4 

Connection Diagram ........................................ 5 

Tutorial ............................................................ 6 

Features ........................................................ 15 

Operation ..................................................... 24 

Sample Mode .................................................. 24 

Pad Play ................................................................ 31 

Loading and Saving Samples ............................ 36 

Sample Record Mode ..................................... 37 

Sequence Mode .............................................. 39 

Recording Sequences ........................................ 41 

Editing Sequences .............................................. 42 

Step Edit ............................................................... 43 

Song Mode ........................................................... 44 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 

Box Contents 

MPC Sample 

USB-C® Cable 

Quickstart Guide 

Safety & Warranty Manual 

Support 

To learn more about MPC Sample, visit akaipro.com. 

To register your product, visit profile.inmusicbrands.com. Log in or register for an account if you do not already 
have one, and then select Register New Product to register MPC Sample. You can also download the inMusic 
Software Center from your Account to register your product, as well as access updates and support links.  

For additional product support, visit support.akaipro.com. 

About This User Guide 

This manual should help you get familiar with using your MPC Sample. We use specific formatting to indicate 
particular topics of significance: 

Important/Note/Tip: Important or helpful information on a given topic. 

Names of buttons, controls, parameters, settings, and other options are written in bold characters throughout 
the manual. 

Examples:  

To open the Flex Beat page, press and hold SHIFT and press the PAD FX / FLEX BEAT button. 

Press the B3 Function Button to Bypass Knob FX on all affected pads. 

Some  parts  of  this  manual  refer  to  other  relevant  chapters  or  sections,  which  are  cited  in  bold,  italic  blue 
characters. Click the text to skip immediately to that section. 

Examples: 

See the Pad Play section for more information on Chop Mode controls. 

While in Step Edit mode, you can also use the fader to adjust event timing.  

You can also click on certain images to jump to specific sections of the manual. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Setup 

This  chapter  describes  how  to  initially  set  up  your  MPC  Sample  and  connect  it  with  other  equipment.  We 
recommend reviewing this chapter before continuing to the Tutorial chapter to get started making beats with 
MPC Sample.  

For  a  more  detailed  overview  of  MPC  Sample’s  controls  and  connections,  proceed  to  the  following  Features 
chapter. 

For additional information on MPC Sample’s functions, proceed to the Operation chapter.  

Firmware Updates 

Before you use MPC Sample for the first time, we recommend checking for available firmware updates. These 
updates add exciting new features and improvements, so staying up-to-date ensures the best experience with 
MPC Sample.  

To check for available firmware updates and apply them to your MPC Sample: 

1.  Connect MPC Sample to an available USB port on a computer using the included USB-C cable. 

2.  Power on MPC Sample.  

3.  Open a web browser, and navigate to mpc-sample.local.  

Tip: If you are having trouble connecting, try restarting MPC Sample while connected via USB. If this still does 
not work, try entering 192.168.155.1 into your web browser instead.  

For Windows 10 users, make sure you have installed the Windows 10 driver prior to connecting. 

4.  Once the web page is loaded and a connection is established, your current firmware version is automatically 
scanned. If there is a firmware update available, follow the instructions on screen to apply it to your device.  

5.  You can also click Manual Firmware Upload if you have a firmware update file that you would like to load to 

your device. 

If you have downloaded the inMusic Software Center, you can also use this to check for updates and apply them 
to your MPC Sample. 

In  addition  to  checking  before  you  use  MPC  Sample  the  first  time,  we  recommend  periodically  checking  for 
firmware updates. You can also visit akaipro.com for the latest product news. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Connection Diagram 

Pictured below is an example of how to set up MPC Sample with other equipment. Note that items not listed 
under the Box Contents are sold separately. 

Proceed to the Features chapter for more information on these connections.  

Headphones 

Speakers 

Microphone 

External Sound 
Module 

Computer or 
Smartphone 

microSD 
Card 

Power  

(Adapter not 
included) 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Tutorial 

This tutorial walks you through the basics of making beats with MPC Sample. We recommend following the steps 
in this chapter in order. 

There  are  links  throughout  this  section  to  later  chapters  of  the  manual  if  you  would  like  to  learn  more  about 
specific functions.  

You can also watch tutorials by visiting the Akai Professional YouTube channel at youtube.com/AkaiProVideo. 

Playing Sounds 

As  soon  as  you  turn  on  MPC  Sample,  a  sample  demo  project  loads  automatically  so  you  can  get  started 
immediately. 

1.  Press the POWER button to turn MPC Sample on. 

2.  Turn up the MAIN VOLUME knob.  

This will adjust the audio level coming from the built-in speaker, or from the PHONES or AUDIO OUT if 
you have audio output devices connected to them. 

3.  Press the PLAY button to hear a sequence using the startup project.  

As the sequence plays, the pads light up as each sound is triggered.  

4.  Press the STOP button to stop playback.  

If you want to stop all sounds at once, quickly double-press the STOP button. 

After you stop the sequence, try tapping on the pads. Each time you hit a pad, the sample triggers, and the sample 
waveform is shown on the MPC Sample display. This is known as Sample Mode, which can be accessed any time 
by pressing the SAMPLE button. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exploring Samples 

MPC Sample includes hundreds of different samples, from individual drum and instrument hits to full drum breaks 
and melodic phrases.  

1.  Tap a pad, and then press the SAMPLE SELECT button. For example, try tapping PAD 2 and then press 

SAMPLE SELECT. 

 + 

2.  Turn the ENCODER to browse the list of sample content folders. Try turning the ENCODER so that the 

Snares folder is highlighted. 

3.  Press the ENCODER to open the folder, and then turn it to browse the list of samples. As each sample is 

highlighted, the sample is previewed from the built-in speaker or a connected audio output.  

4.  Select a new sample, and then press the ENCODER to load the highlighted sample to the pad.  

5.  Press the SAMPLE SELECT button again to return to Sample Mode.  

6.  Try playing the sequence back again to hear the difference in sound with the new sample.  

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Playing Sequences 

Now  that  you’ve  heard  one  sequence,  you  can  explore  how  to  use  MPC  Sample  to  play  multiple  sequences 
together.  

1.  Press the SEQ button to open Sequence Mode.  

In this mode, the pads are used to select and trigger different sequences.  

2.  With PAD 1 still selected, press the PLAY button again to begin sequence playback.  

3.  While Sequence 1 is still playing, tap PAD 2. This queues Sequence 2 to start playing as soon as Sequence 
1 ends, and PAD 2 will start blinking. Continue listening until you hear the sequence change. PAD 2 also 
lights up once that sequence begins playing. 

4.  Try triggering other sequences in different orders as MPC Sample continues playing to hear how you can 

create longer songs with different parts.  

5.  When you are finished, press the STOP button to stop playback.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recording a Sequence 

While in Sequence Mode, you can also try recording your own new sequence using the current sounds. 

1.  Tap a dimly lit pad to select an empty sequence. For example, tap PAD 9 in the demo startup project. 

2.  Press and hold the B1 Function Button (the left-most button above the display) to open the Sequence 

BPM window.  

Turn the ENCODER to adjust the tempo to the desired BPM.  

You can also press the TAP TEMPO button at a regular interval to set a new tempo. 

3.  Press the B3 Function Button (the right-most button above the display) to turn Record Quantization on or 

off. When on, the notes you play while recording are snapped to the grid at the current Q value.  

You can adjust the Q value by turning the K2 Knob.  

4.  Turn the K1 Knob to adjust the sequence length, in bars.  

5.  When  you  are  ready  to  record,  press  the  SEQ  RECORD  button,  and  the  pads  will  return  to  sample 

triggering mode. 

6.  Press the PLAY button to begin recording, and tap the pads to add recorded events. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  When the end of the Sequence is reached, MPC Sample continues overdub recording and any samples 

triggered will play back at their recorded locations.  

8.  When you are finished, press the SEQ RECORD button again to stop recording but continue playback. 
You can also press the STOP button to stop recording and playback at the same time. The pads will return 
to sequence triggering mode.  

 /  

9.  Try launching your new sequence, and then try launching other sequences in the project.  

Starting a New Project 

When you’re ready to move on from the included startup project, you can start a new project. 

1.  Press and hold the SHIFT ( 

 ) button and press PAD 16 – PROJECT. This will open the Project menu. 

 + 

Tip: If you’d like to save your work so far, turn the ENCODER so that Save Project is highlighted, and 
then press it to select. You can use the ENCODER and -/+ buttons to enter a name for your project and 
save it. 

2.  Turn the ENCODER so that New Project is highlighted, and then press it to select. 

3. 

If you have unsaved changes in the current project, you can press the B3 Function Button to confirm you 
want to clear everything. If you need to save your project, press the B1 Function Button to return to the 
Project menu, and follow the instructions in the Tip above to save your project. 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recording a Sample 

In addition to the hundreds of included samples, you can sample any kind of audio with MPC Sample to create your 
own samples. Let’s try using the built-in microphone to capture sound from around you to create a new sample. 

1.  Press the SAMPLE RECORD ( 

 ) button to enter Sample Record Mode. 

2.  Turn the K1 Knob to adjust the current input Source. Select Mic for the built-in microphone. 

3.  Tap  a  pad  to  begin  recording.  Try  humming,  singing,  or  even  tapping  on your  surroundings  to  make 

some noise! 

4.  When you are finished recording, tap the PAD again to return to the Sample Record page.  

Editing a Sample 

After  recording  your  own  sample,  or  if  you  want  to  change  one  of  the  included  samples,  you  can  use  MPC 
Sample’s editing features. 

1.  Make sure you are in Sample Mode by pressing the SAMPLE button. 

2.  Tap a pad to select the sample you want to edit. If you recorded a sample above, tap that pad to select it. 

3.  Your recorded sample might have extra audio around the start and end of your recording that you don’t 

need. 

Turn the K1 Knob to adjust the sample Start point. Turn the K2 Knob to adjust the sample End point. Try 
isolating the best part of your recorded sample. 

Note:  If you move  the  knob  but  the  parameter  doesn’t  change,  look  for  the  arrows  (/)  next  to  the 
parameter name. Move the knob in this direction until you regain control of the parameter. 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  When you tap the pad again, the sample now plays between the sample Start and End points. You can 
permanently alter the sample to be this length by pressing and holding SHIFT and pressing PAD 13 – 
TRIM SAMPLE. This will discard any audio before the Start point and after the End point.  

 + 

There are many other ways to edit your sample.  

•  Try pressing the B1, B2, and B3 Function Buttons to cycle between different options in Sample Mode. 
Use the K1, K2, and K3 Knobs to adjust the various parameters, from pad volume and tuning to filter and 
amplitude envelopes.  

•  Try using the buttons in the PAD PLAY section to adjust sample playback. For example, press the LOOP 

button to make the sample loop continuously when triggered.  

•  Press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 9 – FADER to open the Fader control menu. You can select from 
different parameters that can be adjusted using the Fader. Try selecting Pad Tune. Move the fader as you 
trigger a pad to hear the pitch of the sample change.  

 +  

12 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Using FX 

As your projects grow, you can take your beats to the next level with MPC Sample’s powerful effects. First, try 
using the Pad FX mode. In this mode, each pad triggers a different effect, and the level of the effect is determined 
by how hard you press the pad.  

1.  Press the PAD FX button to open Pad FX mode. 

2.  Press the PLAY button to play the current sequence, and then tap and hold on the pads to trigger the 

respective effects.  

3.  Use the K1–K3 Knobs to adjust different parameters for each effect.  

Next, try using Knob FX mode. In this mode, a single effect is controlled using the K1–K3 Knobs, freeing the MPC 
Sample pads for other uses. For example, this is perfect for applying effects as transitions between sequences. 

1.  Press the KNOB FX button to open Knob FX mode.  

2.  Press SEQ to open Sequence mode, and press PLAY to play a sequence. 

3.  Use the K1–K3 Knobs to adjust the effect while you launch different sequences.  

4.  To change the current Knob FX, press and hold SHIFT and press the KNOB FX / FX SELECT button. Use 

the ENCODER to select a different effect. 

 + 

While in this menu, you can also press the PADS to determine which samples are affected by the Knob 
FX. Knob FX affects lit pads, while dim pads are not affected. Press the B2 Function Button to apply Knob 
FX to All Pads at once.  

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finally, let’s explore Flex Beat mode. Similar to Pad FX, the pads trigger different effects in this mode, but the 
effects are time-based effects that warp the pitch, time, and volume of your sequence for beat chops, DJ-style 
scratches, and trance gate effects. 

1.  Press and hold SHIFT and press the PAD FX / FLEX BEAT button to open Flex Beat mode. 

 + 

2.  Press  the  PLAY  button  to  play  the  current  sequence,  and  then  tap  the  pads  to  trigger  the  respective 
effects. Each Flex Beat effect begins looping once you press the pad, and you will hear your sequence’s 
audio change.  

3.  Press PAD 1 to return to the “Empty” effect.  

In addition to the many features and functions covered in this Tutorial, there’s so much more you can do to make 
beats with MPC Sample.  

The following Features chapter gives you a breakdown of every connection and control on MPC Sample and its 
function. 

The Operation chapter provides greater detail on the different modes and functions of MPC Sample.  

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Features 

This  chapter  describes  the  functions  of  MPC  Sample’s  connections  and  controls.  Click  on  the  picture  to  jump 
directly to the selected control. 

For  more  information  on  using  some  of  the  features  described  below,  proceed  to  the  following  Operation 
chapter.  

1.  POWER: Press this button to turn MPC Sample’s power on and off.  

2.  USB-C®  Port:  To  power  MPC  Sample  and  charge  the  internal  battery,  use  the  included  USB-C  cable  to 
connect  this  port  to  a  USB-C  power  adapter  or  USB-C  power  bank  (not  included).  When  charging,  the 
Charging Icon on the top panel lights up.  

You can also connect this to a USB-C host port on your computer (or mobile device) to send and receive 
audio and MIDI, and transfer files to and from a microSD card inserted into the microSD Card Slot. 

Important: Depending on the type of USB cable and power source used, charging of MPC Sample may be 
limited to when it is powered off only. For best results, use the included USB-C cable with a minimum 5V, 2A 
power source.  

3.  REC GAIN: Turn this knob to adjust the recording level of the line-level AUDIO IN connections. 

4.  AUDIO IN (1/4” [6.35 mm], TRS): Use these inputs to connect a microphone, instrument, or other line-level 

audio source (mixer, synthesizer, drum machine, etc.).  

5.  AUDIO OUT (1/4” [6.35 mm], TRS): Use these outputs to connect to your speakers, a mixer, or other audio 

output destination. Use the MAIN VOLUME control to adjust the level of the audio output. 

6.  MIDI IN / OUT (1/8” [3.5 mm], TRS): Connect external MIDI devices such as drum machines or synthesizers 

to the MIDI Input and Output using 1/8” TRS to 5-Pin MIDI DIN connectors (not included). 

7.  SYNC  OUT  (1/8”  [3.5  mm],  TS):  Use  this  5V  control  voltage  (CV)  output  to  send  clock  pulse  for  syncing 

external modular gear. 

Note: You can adjust MIDI and Sync settings in the MIDI Configuration menu. 

8.  PHONES (1/8” [3.5 mm], TRS): Connect standard headphones here to monitor MPC Sample’s audio. Use 
the MAIN VOLUME control to adjust the level of the headphones output. When headphones are connected, 
the built-in Speaker will be deactivated.  

9.  microSD Card Slot (Left side, not pictured): Insert a microSD card here for external file storage. You can 

access this storage using SD Card Access Mode in the Project menu. 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Display:  The  display  on  MPC  Sample  shows  the  various  menus  and  parameters  available.  To  learn  more 
about all of MPC Sample’s features and functions, continue reading below and proceed to the Operation 
chapter for more details. 

11. Battery Icon: This icon shows the current battery life of MPC Sample. If this icon is green, the battery has 
between 100% and 30% charge. If the icon is amber, the battery has between 29% and 15% charge. If the 
icon is red, the battery has between 14% and 5% charge. If the battery is blinking red, the battery has less 
than 5% charge and needs to be connected to power immediately. 

12. Charging Icon: This icon lights up when MPC Sample is connected to power and charging. If MPC Sample is 

not connected to power, or if the battery is fully charged, the icon does not light up. 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. MAIN VOLUME: Turn this knob to adjust the audio output level. This applies to the built-in SPEAKER as well 

as audio to the PHONES and AUDIO OUT connections on the rear panel. 

14. Meters:  These  meters  display  the  main  output  volume  level,  or  the  input  source  level  when  recording  a 
sample. If the meter consistently lights up in the red during playback, adjust the volume of your samples. If 
the  meter  consistently  light  up  in  the  red  while  recording,  reduce  the  volume  of  your  audio  input  source 
directly, or by turning down the REC GAIN knob for audio connected to the AUDIO IN connection on the 
rear panel. 

15. Speaker:  This  built-in  speaker  plays  audio  when  nothing  is  connected  to  the  PHONES  or  AUDIO  OUT 
connections on the rear panel. Adjust the volume of the speaker by turning the MAIN VOLUME knob. 

Important:  When  recording  using  the  built-in  Microphone,  the  speaker  is  automatically  deactivated  to 
prevent feedback. 

16. Microphone: This built-in condenser microphone allows you to easily sample anything. For more information 

on recording samples and adjusting the microphone settings, see the Sample Record Mode chapter. 

17. SHIFT: This button provides access to secondary functions on MPC Sample. Press and hold it and then press 
another button or pad to access its secondary function. These are printed below the selected control, and are 
highlighted in the descriptions below. 

When viewing parameters and menus on the Display, if the Shift icon (
this button to access additional parameters for control using the K1–K3 Knobs or B1–B3 Function Buttons.  

) is visible you can press and hold 

18. Encoder: Turn this knob to navigate menus, adjust settings, and more, depending on the current mode.  

19. -/+: Press these buttons to decrease (-) or increase (+) the selected parameter, or move down (-) or up (+) in 

the current list.  

Undo/Redo: Press and hold SHIFT and press these buttons to undo the last action (-) or redo the last action 
you undid (+).  

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
20. B1, B2, B3 Function Buttons: Press these buttons above the display to cycle between pages on the display 

or enable certain functions.  

21. K1, K2, K3 Knobs: Turn these knobs to adjust various settings and parameters as shown on the display.  

Important: These knobs have absolute position only. This means that as you are moving between banks of 
controls, the knob’s position may not align with the current setting of the parameter in that bank. When this 
happens, an arrow will appear to the left or right of the parameter name, pointing in that direction. Turn the 
knob in the direction shown until the parameter becomes selected and the arrow disappears. You will now 
be able to regain control of the selected parameter using the knob.  

22. Fader: The fader can be used to adjust various pad and kit parameters. By default, the fader adjusts pad 

volume.  

Press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 9 – FADER to select a different parameter to control. See Menus > 
Fader for more information. 

While in Step Edit mode, you can also use the fader to adjust event timing.  

Important: Like the knobs, the fader has absolute position only. This means that as you are moving between 
different  controls,  the  fader’s  position  may  not  align  with  the  current  setting  of  the  new  parameter.  The 
brightness of the Fader LED indicates the relative position of the current parameter value. The brighter the 
LED,  the  higher  the value.  Move  the  fader  until  the  LED  begins  changing  brightness  again,  indicating  the 
fader has regained control of the current parameter value.  

23. ERASE: This button is used to erase samples, sequences, events, and automation.  

To erase a sample from a pad, stop playback in Sample Mode, then press and hold this button and press a 
pad. If playback is active, press and hold this button and then press and hold a pad to erase note events from 
that pad on the current sequence. While in Step Edit Mode, you can also press and hold this button and then 
press a pad to erase all events from that pad.  

To erase a sequence, press and hold this button and then press a pad in Sequence Mode. 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To erase automation, select the pad that contains the automation you want to erase. Then, press and hold 
this button and move the K1–K3 Knob for the parameter with recorded automation. If the FADER is set to 
control  a  parameter  with  automation,  you  can  also  move  the  FADER  while  holding  ERASE.  A  menu  will 
appear on the display for confirmation. Press the B3 Function Button to continue, or press the B1 Function 
button to cancel.  

COPY: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to initiate the copy process for samples and sequences. 
The currently selected pad determines the sample or sequence that is being copied. While still holding SHIFT 
and COPY, press a pad or pads to select the destination(s) for the copied sample or sequence. Selected pads 
turn  red,  and  can  be  pressed  again  to  deselect.  Finally,  release  SHIFT  and  COPY  to  complete  the  copy 
process for the sample or sequence.  

24. NOTE REPEAT: Press this button to engage Note Repeat mode. When enabled, pressing a pad will cause it 
to sound repeatedly at the set time division. Use the B1–B3 Function Buttons to set the current division. 

You can also press and hold this button to temporarily engage Note Repeat. Release the button to disengage 
Note Repeat.  

TRIPLET: While Note Repeat is engaged, press and hold SHIFT to display triplet time divisions for selection 
using the B1–B3 Function Buttons.  

25. PAD BANK: Press this button to cycle between pad banks A–H. You can also press and hold this button and 
press PADS 1–8 to jump directly to a bank. The current bank is shown on the top panel next to the MAIN 
VOLUME control. 

Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to move to the previous pad bank. 

26. SAMPLE SELECT: Press this button to open the sample browser, where you can browse and select a sample 

to add to the current pad from the internal drive or a connected microSD card (not included). 

SAVE  SAMPLE:  Press  and  hold  SHIFT  and  press  this  button  to  save  the  currently  selected  sample.  See 
Loading and Saving Samples for more information. 

27. TAP TEMPO: Press this button at a regular interval to set a new project tempo. You can also press and hold 

this button in any mode and use the ENCODER to adjust the project tempo from the BPM pop-up.  

METRO: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to cycle the metronome (or “click”) between its three 
states: Off (the metronome does not play), On (the metronome always plays during playback and recording), 
or Record (the metronome only plays during recording). 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28. PADS: These 16 velocity-sensitive pads with poly-aftertouch are used to trigger samples and sequences, and 
perform other functions. See the Operation chapter to learn more about using the pads in each mode.  

SHIFT FUNCTIONS: Press and hold SHIFT and press each pad to perform the additional function printed 
below the pad. 
•  PAD 1 – FULL LEVEL: Sets all pads to play at full velocity, no matter how soft or hard they are struck.  
•  PAD 2 – HALF SEQ: Cuts the current sequence length in half. 
•  PAD 3 – DOUBLE SEQ: Doubles the length of the current sequence, duplicating all recorded events. 
•  PAD 4 – COUNT-IN: Activates or deactivates the count-in, which gives you a one-bar introduction prior 

to recording a sequence.  

•  PAD 5 – COMPRESSOR: Opens the Compressor menu, where you can apply the compressor effect and 

adjust its parameters. 

•  PAD 6 – HALF SPEED: Makes the events of the current sequence play back at half the speed, taking twice 

as much space in the sequence.  

•  PAD 7 – DOUBLE SPEED: Makes the events of the current sequence play back at twice the speed, taking 

half as much space in the sequence.  

•  PAD 8 – MIDI CONFIG: Opens the MIDI Configuration menu, where you can adjust device settings for 

MIDI and CV, as well as reset MPC Sample.  

•  PAD 9 – FADER: Opens the Fader menu, where you can select the active fader parameter, or deactivate 

it entirely. 

•  PAD 10 – REC QUANTIZE: Activates or deactivates record quantization, causing all events you record to 
snap to the grid based on the current quantization setting. You can adjust the quantize value in the Time 
Correct or Sequence Mode pages. 

•  PAD 11 – RESAMPLE: Automatically resamples all audio from the current sequence and adds it as a new 

sample to the chosen pad. 

•  PAD 12 – SONG: Opens the Song Mode page, where you can combine your sequences into a song and 

export it to a new audio file or a new sequence. 

•  PAD 13 – TRIM SAMPLE: Trims the sample on the selected pad, removing any content before the Start 

point and after the End point. 

•  PAD  14  –  TIME  CORRECT:  Opens  the  Time  Correct  menu,  where  you  can  adjust  the  timing  and 

quantization settings for pads in your project. 

•  PAD 15 – WARP: Toggles the current Warp mode between Time Stretch and Pitch. When set to Time 
Stretch, adjusting the Warp value changes the length (and tempo) of the sample, but keeps the pitch the 
same. When set to Pitch, adjusting the Warp values changes the length (and tempo) of the sample as well 
as adjusting the pitch. 

•  PAD 16 – PROJECT: Opens the Project page, where you can load, save, or start a new project. You can 

also access the internal microSD Card Storage from this menu when connected to a computer. 

20 

 
 
 
Mode: The buttons  in  this  section  determine the current  function  mode  of MPC  Sample.  You can  learn  more 
about these pages and functions in the Operation chapter. 

29. SAMPLE: Press this button to open Sample Mode. Here, you can trigger your samples, view and edit their 

parameters, and more.  

INPUT CONFIG: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to enter the Input Configuration menu, where 
you can select and adjust audio input sources. 

30. SEQ: Press this button to enter Sequence Mode, where you can record and edit sequences of note events. 

STEP EDIT: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to enter the Step Edit menu, where you can view and 
adjust individual events in your sequence per step. 

31. PAD FX: Press this button to activate Pad FX mode, where you can use the pads to trigger effects that are 

applied to your entire sequence.  

FLEX BEAT: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to enter Flex Beat FX mode. In this mode, the pads 
trigger time-based effects that warp the pitch, time, and volume of your sequence for beat chops, DJ-style 
scratches, and trance gate effects. 

32. KNOB  FX:  Press  this  button  to  activate  Knob  FX  mode,  where  you  can  use  the  K1–K3  KNOBS  to  adjust 

effects applied to specific pads, freeing your pads for other uses.  

FX SELECT: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to open the Knob FX selection menu, where you can 
select the active Knob FX and select the pads to which Knob FX is applied.  

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pad Play: The buttons in this section determine the functionality of the pads while in Sample Mode. You can 
learn more about these functions in the Pad Play chapter. 

33. CHOP:  Press  this  button  to  activate  Chop  Mode.  When  activated,  the  sample  on  the  selected  pad  is 
automatically chopped by the selected chop type (Threshold by default), and the pads are assigned to trigger 
each available slice.  

To return to Trim Mode, press the CHOP button again. 

NOTE ON: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to set the current pad to NOTE ON mode. In this 
mode, pad playback occurs only while the pad is held down. NOTE ON mode is indicated on the Sample 
page by the note icon ( 

 ). 

34. LOOP: Press this button to activate loop playback for the current pad. While activated, triggering the pad 
initiates the loop, which plays between the Loop Start Point (set using the K3 Knob while Loop Mode is active) 
and the Sample End Point. Loop mode is indicated on the Sample page by the loop icon ( 
REVERSE: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to activate reverse playback for the current pad. While 
activated, triggering the pad starts sample playback from the Sample End Point and moves backwards to the 
Sample Start Point (or Loop Start Point, if Loop playback is active). Reverse mode is indicated on the Sample 
page by the arrow icon ( 

 ). 

 ). 

35. MUTE: Press this button to activate Mute mode for the pads in Sample Mode. While activated, press a pad to 
mute  it,  which  prevents  its  sound  from  being  heard  during  playback,  but  does  not  remove  any  recorded 
events from the sequence. Muted pads are lit red, while unmuted pads are lit yellow.  

You can also press and hold this button to temporarily engage Mute mode. Release the button to disengage. 

UNMUTE ALL: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to unmute all muted pads.  

36. 16 LEVELS: Press this button to activate 16 Levels mode for the pads. While activated, the currently selected 
sample is copied across all 16 pads, with the selected 16 Levels TYPE determining how the sample changes 
across the 16 pads. 16 Levels mode is indicated on the Sample page by the 16 icon ( 
TYPE: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to select the 16 Levels type: 
•  Velocity: The sample increases in velocity across the 16 pads. 
•  Filter: The filter cutoff point of the currently selected filter type is adjusted across the 16 pads. Pads 1–8 
increase the cutoff from the minimum point to the current Cutoff value. Pads 9–16 increase the cutoff 
from  the  current  value  to  the  maximum  point.  Depending  on  the  current  Cutoff  value,  the  range  of 
available value adjustment may be limited. The Cutoff value can be adjusted using the Filter functions in 
Sample Mode. 

 ). 

•  Tune: The pitch of the sample is adjusted across the 16 pads. The sample at its original pitch is placed 

on PAD 4, with pads below this lowering in pitch and pads above this increasing in pitch. 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37. SAMPLE RECORD: Press this button to enter Sample Record mode. In this mode, you can record audio from 
connected sources to create your own samples. See the Sample Record Mode chapter for more information. 

RECALL: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to retrieve the last 25 seconds of audio input from the 
currently selected input source into the next available pad.  

38. SEQ RECORD: Press this button to enter Sequence Record mode. See the Sequence Mode chapter for more 

information. 

RECALL:  Press  and  hold  SHIFT  and  press  this  button  to  retrieve  events  played  during  the  last  loop  of 
sequence playback into the sequence.  

39. PLAY: Press this button to start playback or recording from the beginning of the sequence.  

CONTINUE: Press and hold SHIFT and press this button to start playback from the current playhead position.  

40. STOP: Press this button to stop playback or recording.  

Quickly double-press this button to stop all audio. 

Tip: The buttons’ LED states provide additional information on what functions are active, available, or unavailable. 

If a function is currently active, the associated button is brightly lit. For example, when you are in Sample Mode, 
the SAMPLE button is brightly lit.  

If a button is available to be used but not active, it is dimly lit. If a button is not available to be used, the LED is 
completely off. For example, if you are in Sequence Mode, you cannot access the Chop or 16 Levels functions, so 
those buttons’ LEDs are off. 

When you press and hold SHIFT, buttons that have available secondary functions are dimly lit in red if they are 
inactive,  or  brightly  lit  in  red if they  are  active.  For example, if you  are  in  Knob  FX  Select  Mode, the  button  is 
brightly lit in red. This will remain brightly lit in red as long as you are in this mode, whether or not you are holding 
SHIFT.  

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operation 

This chapter describes MPC Sample’s different modes, functions, and menus. 

For more information on specific controls or connections, refer to the previous Features chapter. 

Sample Mode 

Sample  Mode  is  the  “main”  mode  of  MPC  Sample,  where  you  can  trigger  your  samples,  view  and  edit  their 
parameters, and more. 

To open Sample Mode, press the SAMPLE button.  

Press a PAD to trigger it and view its sample on the display. 

To select and view a sample without triggering it, press and hold the SAMPLE button and press a PAD. 

Turn the K1-K3 Knobs to select and adjust parameters as described below.  

Alternatively, press the ENCODER to cycle between the K1–K3 parameters at the bottom of the screen, and then 
turn the ENCODER or press the -/+ buttons to adjust the selected parameter. You can also press and hold SHIFT 
and press the ENCODER to cycle backwards between the parameters.  

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press the B1 Function Button to cycle between the following options: 

Trim: Use these functions to edit the length of the selected sample. 

•  K1 – Start: Adjust the sample start point (0 – 100%).  

SHIFT+K1 – Zoom: Start: Zoom in or out of the sample waveform at the sample start point (0 – 100%). 

•  K2 – End: Adjust the sample end point (0 – 100%). 

SHIFT+K2 – Zoom: End: Zoom in or out of the sample waveform at the sample end point (0 – 100%). 

•  K3 – Loop: Adjust the loop point (0 – 100%). 

SHIFT+K3 – Zoom: Loop: Zoom in or out of the sample waveform at the loop point (0 – 100%). 

SHIFT+B1 – Loop Lock: Activate or deactivate loop lock. When activated, loop start is locked to the sample 
start.  

Note: When Chop Mode is enabled, the Trim controls are replaced by Chop controls. See the Pad Play section 
for more information on Chop Mode controls.  

Mix: Use these functions to adjust mix settings for the sample.  

•  K1 – Volume: Adjust the sample volume (-INF, -74.00 – +6.00 dB). The vertical meter to the left of the sample 

waveform displays the current volume setting.  

•  SHIFT+K2 – Kit Volume: Adjust the kit volume, or the overall volume of all samples (-INF, -74.00 – +6.00 dB).  

•  K3 – Pan: Adjust the left/right stereo panning of the sample (50L – C – 50R). The vertical meter to the right of 

the sample waveform displays the current pan setting.  

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amp Env: Use these functions to adjust the amplitude envelope of the sample, which allow you to change the 
sample dynamics.  

•  K1 – Attack: Adjust the attack phase of the amplitude envelope (0 – 127). This determines how quickly the 

sound fades in from the sample start point. 

•  K2 – Decay: When the sample is set to One Shot playback, use this knob to adjust the decay phase of the 
amplitude envelope (0 – 127). This determines how quickly the sound fades out, either from the sample start 
point or end point. 

SHIFT+K2 – Decay From: This setting determines whether the decay phase of the amplitude envelope is 
applied to the sample Start or End when the sample is set to One Shot playback.  

K2 – Release: When the sample is set to Note On playback, use this knob to adjust the release phase of the 
amplitude envelope (0 – 127). This determines how quickly the sound fades out when the pad is released. 
See the Pad Play section to learn more about Note On playback. 

•  K3 – Vel Sens: This setting determines how responsive the sample level is to your playing (0 – 127). When 
set to 127, the pads are the most responsive to your playing dynamics as they can be, so that soft hits trigger 
low velocity events. When set to 0, the sample plays at full velocity no matter how soft or hard you hit the pad.  

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press the B2 Function Button to cycle between the following options: 

Tune: Use these functions to adjust sample tuning. 

•  K1 – Semi Tune: Adjust the coarse tuning of the sample pitch in semitones (-24 – 0 – 24). 

•  K2 – Fine Tune: Adjust the fine tuning of the sample pitch in cents (-90 – 0 – 90). 

•  K3 – Warp: This setting adjusts the Warp value (Off, 50 – 200%, Seq). Press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 

15 – WARP to adjust the Warp mode. 

When Warp is set to Time Stretch, adjusting this value changes the length (and tempo) of the sample, but 
keeps the pitch the same. If set to Off, there is no change to the length of the sample. At 50%, the sample is 
half as long, or twice as fast. At 200%, the sample is twice as long, or twice as slow. If set to Seq, the sample’s 
tempo remains locked to the Sequence tempo. 

When Warp is set to Pitch, adjusting this value changes the length (and tempo) of the sample in the same 
way, but also adjusts the pitch of the sample accordingly. When this Warp mode is selected, the Semi Tune 
and Fine Tune parameters are unavailable. 

•  SHIFT+K3 – # Beats: This setting determines the length of the sample in beats. This is used in conjunction 

with the Warp setting to determine how the sample changes in tempo. 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Play: Use these settings to adjust sample playback functionality. 

•  K1 – Polyphony: This setting determines whether the polyphony of the sample is Mono or Poly. When set 
to Mono, each time the pad is struck, the current sample playback will stop, and the sample will restart from 
the sample start point. When set to Poly, each time the pad is struck, the sample will play in its entirety. Striking 
the pad again will replay the sample from the sample start point while the previous trigger continues. 

•  K2  –  Mute  Group:  This  setting  allows  you  to  assign  pads  to  mute  groups  (Off,  1  –  16).  When  pads  are 
assigned to the same mute group, the last pad played silences any other playing samples in the same group. 
For  example,  you  can  assign  a  closed  hi-hat  sample  and  open  hi-hat  sample  to  the  same  mute  group. 
Triggering the closed hi-hat after the open hi-hat stops the sound of the open hi-hat, mimicking the natural 
playing dynamic of a hi-hat.  

SHIFT+ K2 – Pad Link: This setting allows you to set two samples in the same Pad Bank to trigger at the same 
time (Off, 1 – 16). For example, if you have a melodic sample on PAD 6 in Bank A that you want to trigger at 
the same time as a drum break on PAD 7 in Bank A, set the Pad Link value on PAD 7 to 6. Now, each time 
PAD 7 is triggered to launch the drum break, the melodic sample on PAD 6 is triggered at the same time. 
Note, however, this will not affect PAD 7 in any other Pad bank. 

•  K3 – Offset: This setting allows you to apply a trigger offset to the sample (0 – 100%). This delays the start of 

the sample audio after you hit the pad.  

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press the B3 Function Button to cycle between the following options: 

Filter: Use these functions to adjust the sample filter, which allows some of a sample’s audio frequencies to pass 
through it and dampens other frequencies. 

•  K1 – Cutoff: Adjust the center frequency of the selected filter type (0 – 127). Frequencies below, above, or 

around this frequency will be dampened, depending on the selected filter type.  

•  K2 – Reso: Adjust the resonance of the filter around the center frequency (0 – 127). This gives a boost around 

the center frequency.  

•  K3 – Type: This setting determines the type of filter applied: Off (no filter), Classic, LPF2, LPF4, HPF2, HPF4, 

BPF2, BPF4.  

Classic – Similar to the low-pass filter with a slightly different character, particularly when the resonance is 
increased. This is modeled after the filter on the classic MPC3000 drum machine.  

LPF – Low-pass filter. Audio frequencies below the cutoff are unaffected, and audio frequencies above 
the cutoff are dampened. 

HPF – High-pass filter. Audio frequencies below the cutoff are dampened, and audio frequencies above 
the cutoff are unaffected. 

BPF –Band-pass filter. Audio frequencies above and below the cutoff are dampened. 

2 and 4 refer to the rate of damping.  

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filt  Env:  Use  these  functions  to  adjust  the  filter  envelope  settings.  The  filter  envelope  affects  the  filter  Cutoff 
frequency. 

•  K1 – Attack: Adjust the attack phase of the filter envelope (0 – 127). This determines how quickly the filter 

opens up, increasing the filter cutoff frequency.  

•  K2 – Decay: When the sample is set to One Shot playback, use this knob to adjust the decay phase of the 
filter envelope (0 – 127). This determines how quickly the filter closes, or returns to the filter cutoff frequency.  

SHIFT+K2 – Decay From: This setting determines whether the decay phase of the filter envelope is applied 
to the sample Start or End. 

K2 – Release: When the sample is set to Note On playback, use this knob to adjust the release phase of the 
filter envelope (0 – 127). This determines how quickly the filter closes, or returns to the filter cutoff frequency. 
See the following Pad Play section to learn more about Note On playback. 

•  K3  –  Depth:  This  setting  determines  the  amount  of  influence  the  filter  envelope  has  on  the  filter  Cutoff 

frequency (0 – 127). The higher the Depth, the greater the range of filter frequency adjustment.  

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pad Play 

While  in  Sample  Mode,  use  the  PAD  PLAY  buttons  to  activate  additional  playback  functions  for  the  samples, 
described below. 

Note: The MUTE function can be accessed in any mode at any time for fast performance. 

Chop 

Press the CHOP button to activate Chop Mode for the sample on the selected pad.  

In Chop Mode, the sample is automatically chopped by the current chop type between the sample Start Point 
and End Point. You can then use the PADS to trigger each slice or select it for editing. For example, if your sample 
is chopped into eight slices, press PAD 5 to select Slice 5.  

When  Chop  Mode  is  activated,  the  Trim  controls  on  the  Sample  Page  are  replaced  by  the  following  Chop 
controls: 

•  K1 – Start: Adjust the slice start point (0 – 100%, depending on the length of the slice). 

SHIFT+K1 – Zoom: Start: Zoom in or out of the sample waveform at the slice start point (0 – 100%). 

•  K2 – End: Adjust the slice end point (0 – 100%, depending on the length of the slice). 

SHIFT+K2 – Zoom: End: Zoom in or out of the sample waveform at the slice end point (0 – 100%). 

•  K3 – Chop Type: Adjust the chop type. This determines how a sample is chopped when in Chop Mode.  

Threshold: In this mode, slices are placed automatically according to the Threshold setting.  

Regions 4/8/16: In these modes, slices are divided evenly across the length of the sample to create the 
selected number of slices (4, 8, or 16). 

Manual: In this mode, you can manually create slices. Tap PAD 1 to begin playing the sample and add 
the initial slice start point. As the sample plays, tap pads to add additional slices. You can add up to 16 
slices per sample.  

SHIFT+K3 – Threshold: When Chop Mode is set to Threshold, press and hold SHIFT and turn this knob to 
adjust the Threshold value (0 – 100%). Generally, the higher the threshold, the fewer the resulting slices. 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press and hold SHIFT and press the B1 Function Button to Extract the currently selected slice. The selected area 
is exported as a new sample and automatically added to the next available pad. This is a non-destructive edit, so 
the original sample remains fully intact.  

Press and hold SHIFT and press the B2 Function Button to Split the currently selected slice. This automatically cuts 
the selected area in half, creating two slices in place of one. The subsequent slice numbers also increase by one.  

Press and hold SHIFT and press the B3 Function Button to Merge the currently selected slice with the previous 
slice. All subsequent slice numbers will decrease by one.  

For example, if you have a sample with eight slices and Merge Slice 2, Slice 2 is added to Slice 1, leaving seven 
slices in total. The previous Slice 3 becomes Slice 2, and so on.  

Press and hold the ERASE button and tap a PAD to remove a slice. This will also merge the removed slice with 
the previous slice and decrease all subsequent slice numbers by one. 

Note: Editing slices automatically sets the Chop Type to Manual.  

Editing slices also cannot be undone or redone using the UNDO/REDO functions. 

To exit Chop Mode, press the CHOP button again.  

 + 

Note On 

Press and hold SHIFT and press the CHOP button to enable Note On playback for the sample on the selected 
pad. When set to Note On, the sample will play only as long as the pad is held down. Once the pad is released, 
sample playback will stop. When Note On is off, the sample plays as a “One Shot” instead, playing in its entirety 
each time the pad is triggered (except when the LOOP function is engaged, in which case triggering the PAD 
starts and stops the loop).  

Enabling Note On mode for a sample also affects the Amplitude Envelope and Filter Envelope controls for the 
selected  pad.  Instead  of  Decay  parameters,  these  Envelopes  will  have  Release  parameters.  See  the  previous 
Sample Mode section for more information on the Envelope parameters.  

Note On playback is indicated for each sample in Sample Mode with the note icon ( 

 ). 

32 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loop 

Press the LOOP button to activate looping playback for the sample.  

To start loop playback, tap a PAD while Loop is activated to begin playing the sample from the Sample Start 
point. When the sample reaches the Sample End point, it returns to the Loop Start point and keeps playing. 

By default, the LOOP LOCK function is engaged when looping playback is activated. This locks the Sample 
Start point to the Loop Start point. While in Sample Mode, press and hold SHIFT and press the B1 Function 
Button to disengage Loop Lock. When disengaged, the Sample Start point and Loop Start point can be set 
independently.  

If the sample is also in Reverse playback, it begins at the Sample End point and plays backwards until reaching 
the Sample Start point, then returns to the Sample End point and keeps playing.  

Loop playback also affects how the Amp Env is applied. If the sample is set to One Shot playback and the 
envelope  is  set to  Decay From  End  (default),  the  loop  plays  indefinitely  until  the  pad  is toggled  off.  If  the 
sample  is  set  to  One  Shot  playback  and  the envelope is  set  to Decay From Start,  the  loop  plays  until it  is 
manually toggled off, or until the Decay stage of the envelope is completed and mutes the sample.  

To stop loop playback, tap the pad again. If the sample is also in Note On playback, it keeps looping as long 
as the pad is being held, and stops once the pad is released. 

Loop playback is indicated in Sample Mode by the loop icon ( 

 ). 

 + 

Reverse 

Press and hold SHIFT and press the LOOP button to activate reverse playback for the sample. When activated, 
the sample plays in reverse, starting from the Sample End Point and moving backwards to the Sample Start Point 
(or Loop Start Point, if Loop playback is active). 

Reverse playback is indicated in Sample Mode by the arrow icon ( 

 ). 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mute 

Press  the  MUTE  button  to  activate  the  mute  function  of  the  pads.  You  can  also  press  and  hold  this  button  to 
temporarily engage the mute function. Release the button to disengage.  

When  mute  is  activated,  the  pads  no  longer  trigger  samples,  and  can  instead  be  used  to  mute  and  unmute 
individual  samples.  This  can  be  useful  when  playing  sequences  to  create  dynamic  arrangements  by  bringing 
elements in and out of the sequence. 

To mute a sample, press the respective pad so that it is lit red. Unmuted samples are lit yellow. 

To unmute a sample, press a pad that is lit red so that it returns to yellow. You can also use the UNMUTE ALL 
function, described below, to unmute all samples at the same time.  

If a muted sample is selected in Sample Mode, the waveform will appear greyed out, and the sample will not trigger.  

This function can be accessed from any mode at any time for fast performance. 

 + 

Unmute All: Press and hold SHIFT and press the MUTE button to unmute all muted samples at the same time.  

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 Levels: Press the 16 LEVELS button to activate 16 Levels mode for the sample on the currently selected pad. 
When activated, the current sample is copied across all 16 pads, with a selected parameter increasing in value across 
the pads. This allows you to create more dynamic arrangements by adding variations of the sample without having 
to load multiple versions of the same sound.  

16 Levels mode is indicated on the Sample page by the 16 icon ( 

 ). 

 + 

TYPE: Press and hold SHIFT and press the 16 LEVELS button to cycle between the available 16 Levels types. This 
determines how the sample changes across the 16 pads. 

•  Velocity: The sample increases in velocity across the 16 pads. 
•  Filter:  The  filter  cutoff  point  of  the  currently  selected  filter  type  is  adjusted  across  the  16  pads.  Pads  1–8 
increase the cutoff from the minimum point to the current Cutoff value. Pads 9–16 increase the cutoff from 
the current value to the maximum point. Depending on the current Cutoff value, the range of available value 
adjustment may be limited. The Cutoff value can be adjusted using the Filter functions in Sample Mode.  
•  Tune: The pitch of the sample is adjusted across the 16 pads. The sample at its original pitch is placed on 

PAD 4, with pads below this lowering in pitch and pads above this increasing in pitch. 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loading and Saving Samples 

To load a sample to a pad, press the SAMPLE SELECT ( 

 ) button to open the Sample Browser. 

Turn the ENCODER, or press the -/+ buttons, to browse the list of sample categories.  

Press the ENCODER to open a folder, and then turn the ENCODER or press the -/+ buttons to browse the 
list of samples. 

Use  the  B3  Function  Button  to  turn  automatic  Preview  on  or  off.  When  on,  each  sample  will  play  as  it  is 
highlighted.  

Press the B1 Function Button to move Back. 

Press the B2 Function Button to switch between the Internal drive and an External drive if you have a microSD 
card inserted into the microSD Card Slot. This defaults to an automatically-created MPC-Sample/Samples 
directory where user samples are stored, but you can freely navigate to other directories on your microSD 
card as needed. 

To save a sample, press and hold SHIFT and press the SAMPLE SELECT / SAVE SAMPLE button. 

Turn  the  ENCODER  to  scroll  through  letters  and  numbers.  Press  the  ENCODER  to  select  the  desired 
character and move to the next character.  

Press and hold SHIFT to access capital letters. 

Press the -/+ buttons to move between characters.  

Press the B2 Function Button to erase the current character. 

Press and hold SHIFT and press the B2 Function Button to erase all characters at the same time.  

When you have finished editing the sample name, press the B3 Function Button (Do It!) to save the sample. 

To exit the Save Sample page without saving, press the B1 Function Button (Cancel). 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample Record Mode 

In addition to the built-in sounds of MPC Sample, you can use its sampling capabilities to record your own sounds 
using Sample Record mode.  

To open Sample Record Mode, press the SAMPLE RECORD button. 

Press the B1 Function Button to cycle between the audio monitoring settings.  
•  Off: Audio from the selected Source is never monitored. 
•  Auto: Audio from the selected Source is monitored only while Sample Record Mode is in focus. 
•  On: Audio from the selected Source is always monitored. 

This is automatically set to the current MONITOR setting in the Input Configuration menu.  

The  Speaker  icon  below  to  this  setting  indicates  the  current  state  of  the  built-in  speaker.  If  the  speaker  is 
deactivated, the icon appears crossed out. For example, this occurs when the built-in Microphone is selected as 
the active Source and Monitor is set to On or Auto (while Sample Record Mode is in focus), or when an audio 
output  device  is  connected  to  the  PHONES  or  AUDIO  OUT  connections  on  the  rear  panel  while  any  input  is 
selected as the active Source.  

Turn the K1 Knob to select the active input source.  
•  Mic: The built-in microphone, located next to the ENCODER. 
•  Rear: The rear panel AUDIO IN connections. Selecting this option enables both the 1/L and 2/R inputs to 

record in stereo. 

•  Rear L: The 1/L AUDIO IN on the rear panel. 
•  Rear R: The 2/R AUDIO IN on the rear panel. 
•  Resample: Re-recorded audio from MPC Sample. You can use this to record a sequence onto a single pad, 

freeing up other pads for additional sounds. 

•  USB: Audio from a device connected to MPC Sample’s rear panel USB port. Selecting this option records 

stereo audio from the USB device. 

•  USB L: Left-channel audio from a device connected to the USB port. 
•  USB R: Right-channel audio from a device connected to the USB port. 

This is automatically set to the current SOURCE setting in the Input Configuration menu. 

Turn the K2 Knob to set the recording length for the sample. Set this to Free to record with no set length, or set 
to Seq to record for the length of the current sequence. If Seq is selected and playback is active, recording begins 
at the end of the current loop. 

This is automatically set to the REC LENGTH setting in the Input Configuration menu. 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turn the K3 Knob to adjust the recording Threshold.  

When incoming audio rises above the Threshold setting, the waveform icon in the top-right corner of the screen 
lights up.  

This is automatically set to the THRESHOLD setting in the Input Configuration menu. 

Once you have confirmed these settings, you can begin recording. 

1.  Tap the pad where you would like to add your sample to begin recording. 

2.  Record audio from your selected source. 

As you record, you can also tap additional PADS to chop your sample.  

3.  Once you are finished recording, stop recording by pressing the pad again, pressing the STOP button, or 

pressing the SAMPLE RECORD button. 

If you stop recording by pressing the PAD or STOP button, you will remain in Sample Record mode, and can 
continue recording samples. To return to Sample Mode and view your recorded sample, press the SAMPLE 
button. 

If you stop recording by pressing the SAMPLE RECORD button, you will automatically return to Sample Mode 
with your newly recorded sample selected. 

Tip:  If  you  miss  capturing  a  great  moment,  you  can  press  and  hold  SHIFT  and  press  the  SAMPLE  RECORD/ 
RECALL button to retrieve the last 25 seconds of audio from your selected source and automatically place it on 
the next available pad. 

You can now edit your sample and add it to sequences. See the Sample Mode chapter for more information on 
editing samples, as well as Loading and Saving Samples, or the Sequence Mode chapter for more information 
on recording and editing sequences.  

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sequence Mode 

Sequences are the building blocks of songs when making music with MPC Sample. A sequence contains a pattern 
of notes over a set length of time. You can use sequences to create entire song sections, like having one sequence 
for a verse and one sequence for a chorus, or create many variations using sequences, like having four similar 
sequences for a verse that you can use interchangeably or together. As you build your sequences, you can also 
edit them and export them as an entire song for sharing. 

To open Sequence Mode, press the SEQ button.  

Turn  the  ENCODER  to  adjust  the  current  playhead  position  by  beats.  Press  and  hold  SHIFT  and  turn  the 
ENCODER to adjust the current playhead position by the current Q value (described below). 

Press and hold the B1 Function Button to open the Sequence BPM window. Turn the ENCODER to adjust the 
tempo to the desired BPM. Press the ENCODER to cycle between whole numbers and decimals. When you have 
finished editing the Sequence BPM, release the B1 Function Button.  

Tip: You can also press the TAP TEMPO button at a regular interval to set a new tempo for the sequence. 

Press the B2 Function Button to toggle between Sequence (SEQ) BPM control and Global (GBL) BPM control. When 
set to SEQ, each sequence has an independent BPM. When set to GBL, all sequences are tied to the same BPM. 

Press the B3 Function Button to turn Record Quantization on or off. When on, the notes you play while recording 
are snapped to the grid at the current Q value (described below). 

Turn the K1 Knob to adjust the length of the sequence to 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, or 128 Bars. Press and hold SHIFT 
and turn the K1 Knob to adjust the length of the sequence to any value between 1–128 Bars. 

Turn the K2 Knob to adjust the Quantization (Q) value. This determines the time division that each bar of the 
sequence is divided into, and how note events snap to those divisions. For example, if the Q is set to 1/16, all 
events will snap to the nearest 1/16th note on the grid. 

Turn the K3 knob to adjust the RT Swing value. This is a “live” parameter that does not affect the actual placement 
of note events in the sequence, but instead applies a percentage shift based on the current note event position 
and relative to the nearest time division as set by the Q value. You can use this as a performative tool to adjust 
your beat’s rhythms on the fly.  

Press and hold SHIFT and turn the K2 Knob to adjust the time signature of the Project. The current time signature 
is also shown on the display in Sequence Mode below the current sequence name. 

Note: All sequences are tied to the same time signature.  

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press and hold SHIFT and turn the K3 Knob to adjust the Metronome (or “click”) volume.  

Press and hold SHIFT and press the TAP TEMPO / METRONOME button to cycle the metronome between its 
three  states:  Off  (the  metronome  does  not  play),  On  (the  metronome  always  plays  during  playback  and 
recording), or Record (the metronome only plays during recording). The current metronome setting is also shown 
on the display in Sequence Mode above the current sequence time.  

Press  and  hold  SHIFT  and  press  PAD  4  –  COUNT-IN  to  activate  or  deactivate  the  recording  count-in.  When 
activated,  MPC  Sample  will  count  off  one  bar  at  the  current  tempo  and  time  signature  prior  to  recording  a 
sequence. This count appears on the display, and if the Metronome is set to On or Record, it can also be heard. 

The count-in status is also shown on the display in Sequence Mode. The 1234 icon is red when the count-in is 
activated, and grey when it is deactivated. 

Tip: You can access the Sequence Mode display functions while keeping the pads in Sample Mode for triggering 
samples by pressing and holding the SEQ button and then pressing the SAMPLE button (or vice versa). Both 
buttons will flash while Sample/Seq Mode is engaged. To exit, press either the SEQ or SAMPLE button to return 
to that mode’s display and pad functions. 

Selecting and Triggering Sequences 

Press a PAD to select a sequence. Sequences with note events are lit light green, while empty sequences are 
dimly lit. 

If playback is stopped, the current sequence will flash bright green, indicating it is queued for playback. The name 
of the current sequence is also shown on the display below the sequence tempo. 

Press the PLAY button to launch a sequence. The pad for the current sequence will stop flashing and remain 
solidly lit bright green. 

During playback, press another PAD to queue a different sequence. The pad for the queued sequence flashes 
bright  green  until  the  end  of  the  current  sequence.  Once  the  current  sequence  ends,  the  new  sequence 
immediately begins playing, and the pad for the new sequence is now solidly lit bright green. 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recording Sequences 

To record a new sequence with MPC Sample: 

1. 

In Sequence Mode, tap a dimly lit pad to select an empty sequence.  

2.  Prior  to  recording,  you  can  adjust  the  Sequence  data  like  BPM,  Length,  and  Record  Quantization  as 

needed using the methods described above.  

3.  When you are ready to record, press the SEQ RECORD ( 

 ) button. The button will begin flashing to 

indicate it is armed for recording.  

The pads will also enter Sample/Seq Mode, where the Sequence Mode display remains while the pads 
return  to  sample  triggering  mode,  as  described  above.  Both  the  SAMPLE  and  SEQ  buttons  flash  to 
indicate they are in Sample/Seq Mode. You can also press the SAMPLE button to return to Sample Mode 
while keeping sequence recording armed. 

4.  Press the PLAY button to begin recording. The sequence begins playing, and you can tap the pads to 

add recorded events. 

5.  When the end of the Sequence is reached, MPC Sample automatically switches to overdub recording, 
and  any  samples  triggered  will  play  back  at  their  recorded  locations.  You  can  continue  recording  as 
needed.  

6.  When you are finished, press the SEQ RECORD button again to stop recording but continue playback. 
You can also press the STOP button to stop recording and playback at the same time. The pads will return 
to sequence triggering mode if you were previously in Sequence Mode. 

Press and hold SHIFT and press -/UNDO to undo all recorded events since the last time recording began.  

While sequence recording is armed, you can also press and hold the ERASE button and press a PAD to erase all 
recorded events for that pad.  

Press and hold SHIFT and press the SEQ RECORD/RECALL button to retrieve any events played during the last 
loop of the sequence. These events are automatically added to your sequence on the respective pads.  

In addition to recording events, you can also record parameter automation on your sequence. 

1.  Select the pad on which you want to record automation.  

2.  Press the SEQ RECORD button to arm sequence recording, and then press the PLAY button to begin 

recording. 

3.  Turn  the  K1–K3  Knobs  or  move  the  FADER  to  adjust  the  desired  parameter.  You  can  automate 
parameters including Volume, Tuning, Pan, Amp and Filter Envelope parameters (except Decay From), 
Velocity Sensitivity, and Offset. 

4.  When you are finished, press the SEQ RECORD button again to stop recording but continue playback. 

You can also press the STOP button to stop recording and playback at the same time. 

Press and hold SHIFT and press -/UNDO to undo all recorded automation events since the last time recording 
began.  

To erase automation, select the pad that contains the automation you want to erase. Then, press and hold this 
button and move the K1–K3 Knob for the parameter with recorded automation. If the FADER is set to control a 
parameter  with  automation,  you  can  also  move  the  FADER  while  holding  ERASE.  A  menu  will  appear  on  the 
display for confirmation. Press the B3 Function Button to continue, or press the B1 Function button to cancel.  

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editing Sequences 

Press and hold SHIFT and press the following PADS to perform the following actions for your sequence: 
•  PAD 2 – Half Seq: Cuts the length of the current sequence in half. For example, a 4-bar sequence becomes 

a 2-bar sequence.  

•  PAD  3  –  Double  Seq:  Doubles  the  length  of  the  current  sequence,  duplicating  all  recorded  events.  For 

example, a 4-bar sequence becomes an 8-bar sequence. 

•  PAD 6 – Half Speed: Makes all events in the current sequence play at half speed, so they take twice as much 

space in the sequence. For example, hi-hats playing at 1/8 notes now play at 1/4 notes. 

•  PAD 7 – Double Speed: Makes all events in the current sequence play at double speed, so they take half as 

much space in the sequence. For example, hi-hats playing at 1/8 notes now play at 1/16 notes. 

•  PAD 10 – Rec Quantize: Activates or deactivate record quantization. This makes all recorded events snap to 

the grid based on the current time division. This can also be adjusted in Sequence Mode.  

•  PAD 11 – Resample: Press this to capture the current sequence a new sample. After selecting this action, 
press the pad where you want to add the new sample, and the sequence is rendered as a new sample to that 
pad.  

•  PAD  12  –  Song:  Enter  Song  Mode,  where  you  can  string  together  sequences  to  create  a  song,  and  then 
export it as an audio file or new sequence added to your project. See the following Song Mode chapter to 
learn more.  

•  Pad 14 – Time Correct: Enter the Time Correct menu, where you can adjust and apply quantization to events 

in your sequence. See the Time Correct chapter to learn more. 

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Step Edit 

The Step Edit page allows you to edit individual events in your sequence by step.  

 + 

To open the Step Edit page, press and hold SHIFT and press the SEQ / STEP EDIT button. 

Turn the ENCODER to move between each step of the sequence at the current quantization (Q) value.  

Press the -/+ buttons to move between events on the current step. You can also tap the respective pad to select 
its event.  

Move  the  FADER  up  or  down  to  adjust  the  timing  of  the  selected  event,  nudging  it  forward  or  backward, 
respectively, from the current position.  

Turn the K1 Knob to adjust the sequence length. 

Turn the K2 Knob to adjust the current quantization (Q) value. This also determines the value of each step that 
you can scroll through using the ENCODER. 

Turn the K3 Knob to adjust the velocity of the selected event.  

Press and hold SHIFT and turn the K2 Knob to adjust the time signature of the Project.  

Note: All sequences are tied to the same time signature.  

Press and hold the B1 Function Button to adjust the sequence tempo using the ENCODER. Press the ENCODER 
to move between whole numbers and decimals.  

Press the B3 Function Button to erase the selected event.  

While viewing the Step Edit page, you can also press and hold the ERASE button and press a PAD to erase all 
events from that pad. Press the B1 Function Button to Cancel and return to the Step Edit page, or press the B3 
Function Button (Do It!) to proceed with erasing the events. 

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Song Mode 

Song  Mode  allows  you  to  create  a  list  of  sequences,  which  you  can  then  export  as  an  audio  file  or  as  a  new 
sequence in your project. 

 + 

To enter song mode, press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 12 – SONG.  

Use the PADS to select a sequence. Filled sequences are brightly lit, while empty sequences are dim. 

Press  the  B3  Function  Button  to  insert  the  sequence  into  the  song  at  the  current  location.  Sequences  will  be 
placed after the highlighted sequence if there are already sequences in place.  

Turn the ENCODER or press the -/+ buttons to browse the list of sequences inserted into the song.  

To remove a sequence, highlight it and then press the B2 Function Button.  

To  hear your  song  from the  beginning,  press  the PLAY  button.  Sequences will  play  back  automatically  in the 
order the appear on the Song page. 

To hear your song starting from another point, highlight the sequence you want to start from and then press and 
hold SHIFT and press PLAY/CONTINUE. Playback will begin from the selected sequences and progress through 
the following sequences.  

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To export your song, press the B1 Function Button. You can export your song as an audio mixdown or as a new 
sequence in your project.  

Press the B2 Function Button to export your song as an audio mixdown. This allows you to save your song as an 
audio file which you can then transfer to a computer for sharing.  

Turn  the  ENCODER  to  scroll  through  letters  and  numbers.  Press  the  ENCODER  to  select  the  desired 
character and move to the next character.  

Press and hold SHIFT to access capital letters. 

Press the -/+ buttons to move between characters.  

Press the B2 Function Button to erase the current character. 

Press and hold SHIFT and press the B2 Function Button to erase all characters at the same time.  

When you have finished editing the song name, press the B3 Function Button (Do It!) to start the export. 

To exit the audio export page, press the B1 Function Button (Cancel). 

Press the B3 Function Button to export your song as a new sequence. The resulting sequence is automatically 
added to the next available sequence slot. If the new sequence length is over 128 bars, you will not be able to 
edit the length of the created sequence. 

Press the B1 Function Button to cancel exporting and return to the Song page.  

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects 

MPC Sample includes four different effect engines, all of which can be used to take your beats to the next level. 

Pad  FX:  In  this  mode,  effects  are  triggered  using  the  pads  during  playback  of  your  sequence.  There  are  16 
available effects which can be dynamically triggered according to how hard you press the pad. The harder you 
press, the more the effect is applied. 

Flex Beat: In this mode, the pads trigger 16 different effects that warp pitch, time, and volume of your audio for 
beat chops, DJ-style scratches, and trance gate effects.  

Knob FX: In this mode, the K1–K3 knobs are used to control a specific effect that can be applied to any number 
of pads. This mode is great for when you want to continue to use the pads for triggering samples or sequences, 
but also want to incorporate effects during your performance.  

Compressor: This page allows you to apply and adjust the built-in compressor for adding extra punch to your 
sound.  

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Pad FX 

MPC Sample’s Pad FX allow you to trigger effects using the pads as your sequence plays.  

To open the Pad FX page, press the PAD FX mode button. 

To trigger Pad FX, press PADS 1–16, corresponding to the effect you would like to trigger. The more pressure 
you apply to the pad, the more the effect is applied to the audio signal.  

You can use up to four effects at the same time. If additional effects are triggered, previously engaged effects are 
bypassed, starting with the first effect engaged. When the additional effects after the fourth are turned off, the 
bypassed effects will re-engage. 

To adjust Pad FX parameters, turn the K1–3 Knobs. See the list below for the available parameters for all effects.  

Press the B1 Function Button to Latch an effect at the current amount. Select the pad and press this button again 
to disable Latch. 

Pad  Effect 

Description 

Parameters 

Values 

1 

Half Speed 

This effect processes your audio and 
plays it back at a reduced speed. 

2 

Chorus 

3 

Flanger 

This effect uses a low-frequency 
oscillator to modulate the pitch and a 
delay of the input signal for a 
shimmering, “watery” sound.  

This effect applies a short, modulating 
delay to the audio signal, resulting in a 
signature “whooshing” sound. 

4 

Phaser 

This effect applies modulated filters to 
the audio signal, resulting in a sharp, 
“sweeping” sound. 

K1 – Speed 

x1.5, x2, x4 

K2 – Mix 

0–100% 

K1 – Rate 

0.40 – 3.20 Hz 

K2 – Depth  

0–100% 

K3 – Feedback 

0–100% 

K1 – Rate 

0.02 – 10.00 Hz 

K2 – Depth  

0–100% 

K3 – Feedback 

0–100% 

K1 – Feedback 

0–100% 

K2 – Speed  

2 bars, 1 bar, 1/2, 1/4, 1/4t, 
1/8, 1/8t, 1/16, 1/16t, 1/32, 
1/64 

K3 – Range 

0–100% 

5 

Comb Filter 

This effect creates “notches” in the 
frequency spectrum by delaying the 
audio signal and adding it back to itself.  

K1 – Speed  

2 bars, 1 bar, 1/2, 1/4, 1/4t, 
1/8, 1/8t, 1/16, 1/16t, 1/32, 
1/64 

47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pad  Effect 

Description 

6 

LP Filter 

This effect applies a low-pass filter, 
suppressing frequencies above the 
cutoff point. 

7 

HP Filter 

This effect applies a high-pass filter, 
suppressing frequencies below the 
cutoff point. 

8 

BP Filter 

This effect applies a band-pass filter, 
suppressing frequencies above and 
below the cutoff point. 

Parameters 

Values 

K1 – Resonance   0–100% 

K2 – Speed 

2 bars, 1 bar, 1/2, 1/4, 1/4t, 
1/8, 1/8t, 1/16, 1/16t, 1/32, 
1/64 

K3 – Range  

0–100% 

K1 – Resonance   0–100% 

K2 – Speed 

2 bars, 1 bar, 1/2, 1/4, 1/4t, 
1/8, 1/8t, 1/16, 1/16t, 1/32, 
1/64 

K3 – Range  

0–100% 

K1 – Resonance   0–100% 

K2 – Speed 

2 bars, 1 bar, 1/2, 1/4, 1/4t, 
1/8, 1/8t, 1/16, 1/16t, 1/32, 
1/64 

K3 – Range  

0–100% 

Note: Each filter has an LFO that is controlled by the set Speed and Range. 

9 

Ring Mod 

This modulation effect creates metallic 
pulsing or ringing sounds by 
combining audio signals, and at slow 
speeds creates a “ducking” sound. 

K1 – Max Freq  

40.00 – 400.00 Hz 

10 

LoFi 

11 

Color 

12 

Granulator 

This effect reduces the audio quality of 
the signal for a lo-fi sound that ranges 
from subtle to mangled distortion.  

K1 – Bitcrush  

24.00 – 2.00 

K2 – Decimator   0–100% 

This effect applies EQ, noise, and 
modulation to emulate the sounds of 
vintage sound equipment.  

K1 – Mode 

Cassette, Flutter, Tube 
Amp, Vinyl, Saturation, 
Radio 

This effect turns your audio into small 
grains of sound that can be 
manipulated for sonic 
experimentation. 

K1 – Density  

1.0/s – 300.0/s 

K2 – Feedback  

0–100% 

K3 – Grain Len 

10.0 – 200.0 ms 

13 

Beat Repeat 

This stuttering effect loops and 
repeats your source audio.  

K1 – Division  

1/4, 1/4t, 1/8, 1/8t, 1/16, 
1/16t, 1/32, 1/64 

14 

Rev Stepper 

This effect continually slices the 
incoming audio by the length of the 
Delay Time parameter. It then plays 
the slices forwards and reverse as 
many times as the Repeat parameter 
dictates.  

K2 – Reverse  

Off, On  

K3 – Resonance   0–100% 

K1 – Delay Time   1/4, 1/4t, 1/8, 1/8t, 1/16, 

1/16t, 1/32, 1/64 

K2 – Repeats  

2–8 

48 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pad  Effect 

Description 

Parameters 

Values 

15 

Delay 

This effect adds echo repeats to your 
source audio.  

K1 – Time  

1/1, 1/2, 1/4d, 1/4, 1/4t, 
1/8d, 1/8, 1/8t, 1/16d, 1/16, 
1/16t, 1/32d, 1/32, 1/32t, 
1/64d, 1/64, 1/64t 

K2 – Feedback 

0–100% 

K3 – Range 

Normal, X-Feedback, Ping-
Pong 

16 

Reverb 

This is a spatial effect, designed to 
emulate playing audio in an empty 
space. 

K1 – Pre-Delay 

0–250 ms 

K2 – Decay  

0–100% 

K3 – Diffusion  

0–100% 

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flex Beat 

Similar to Pad FX, the pads are used to trigger effects in MPC Sample’s Flex Beat mode, but these are time-based 
effects that warp the pitch, time, and volume of your sequence for beat chops, DJ-style scratches, and trance gate 
effects. 

 + 

To open the Flex Beat page, press and hold SHIFT and press the PAD FX / FLEX BEAT button. 

Flex  Beat  effects  are  applied  to  your  entire  sequence  during  playback.  Press  the  PLAY  button  to  play  your 
sequence before using Flex Beat. 

By default, PAD 1 is active when Flex Beat is entered. This is an EMPTY effect and is the baseline of no change to 
your audio. 

To apply a Flex Beat effect, press PADS 2–16.  

Press the B3 Function Button to activate or deactivate Quantize for Flex Beat. When activated, Flex Beat effects 
are applied starting at the nearest time division.  

Turn the K1 Knob to change the Flex Beat mode from One Shot to Loop. In One Shot mode, when a Flex Beat 
effect is triggered, it automatically returns to the Empty effect (PAD 1) after completion. In Loop mode, each Flex 
Beat effect will continue to repeat until another effect is selected or the Empty slot is selected. 

Turn the K3 Knob to adjust the dry/wet Mix of the Flex Beat effect (0 – 100%). When set to 0%, only the original 
audio is heard. When set to 100%, the original audio is not heard, and only the Flex Beat affected audio is heard.  

50 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Knob FX 

MPC Sample’s Knob FX allows you to use the K1–3 KNOBS to control a single effect parameter, freeing your 
pads for other uses, such as triggering samples or sequences, or even in conjunction with the pads in Pad FX or 
Flex Beat modes.  

To engage the Knob FX controls, press the KNOB FX button. Once enabled, the KNOB FX button lights up, and 
the current effect is briefly shown on the display.  

The  bottom  of  the  display  will  show  the  parameters  available  for  control  using  the  K1–K3  Knobs.  If  the  Shift 
indicator is shown, you can press and hold SHIFT to access additional parameters for control using the K1–K3 
Knobs.  

While Knob FX is engaged, you are unable to use the K1–3 KNOBS for other functions, such as adjusting the 
Start/End points in Sample Mode or adjusting Pad FX parameters. 

To disengage Knob FX mode, press the KNOB FX button again.  

 + 

To adjust the Knob FX settings, press and hold SHIFT and press the KNOB FX button.  

Knob FX can be applied to specific pads, or to all pads. Press a pad to enable Knob FX for that pad. Enabled pads 
are brightly lit, while pads unaffected by Knob FX are dimly lit. 

Press the B2 Function Button to enable Knob FX on All Pads at the same time.  

Press the B3 Function Button to Bypass Knob FX on all affected pads.  

To select an effect for Knob FX, turn the ENCODER or press the -/+ buttons to browse the list of effects, and then 
press the ENCODER to load the highlighted effect.  

51 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below provides a list of the available Knob FX, along with their descriptions and available parameters 
for control.  

Effect 

Delay 

Description 

Parameters 

Values 

This effect adds echo repeats 
to your source audio. 

K1 – Time  

When SYNC is ON:  1/32, 1/16T,1/32D, 1/16, 1/8T, 

1/16D, 1/8, 1/4T, 1/8D, 1/4, 
2/4T, 1/4D, 2/4, 5/8, 3/4, 7/8, 
4/4, 5/4, 6/4, 8/4 

When SYNC is OFF:  1 ms – 2.00 s 

K2 – Feedback  

K3 – Mix  

0 – 100% 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Sync 

Off, On 

SHIFT+K2 – Damping 

1.00 – 20.0 kHz 

SHIFT+K3 – Width 

0 – 100% 

K1 – Time  

When SYNC is ON:  1/64, 1/32, 1/16T,1/32D, 1/16, 

1/8T, 1/16D, 1/8, 1/4T, 1/8D, 
1/4, 1/2T, 1/4D, 2/4, 4/4T, 3/4, 
4/4 

When SYNC is OFF:  1 – 1000 ms 

K2 – Feedback  

K3 – Mix  

0 – 100% 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Sync 

Off, On 

SHIFT+K2 – Diffusion 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K3 – High Damp 

0 – 100% 

K1 – Time  

1, 1/2, 1/2., 1/4, 1/4., 1/8, 1/8., 
1/16, 1/16. 

K2 – Feedback  

K3 – Mix  

0 – 100 

0 – 100 

SHIFT+K1 – Wow/Flut 

0 – 100 

SHIFT+K2 – Ramp 

0 – 100 

SHIFT+K3 – Spread 

0 – 100 

K1 – Left  

K2 – Right 

0.0 – 250.0 ms 

0.0 – 250.0 ms 

Diff Delay 

This effect applies a delay with 
an adjustable amount of 
diffusion, emulating the 
dissipation of echoes in a 
reverberant space.  

Tape Delay 

This effect emulates a delay 
system using an analog tape 
loop and a series of tape 
heads to produce an echo 
effect. 

Sample Delay 

This effect is a utility delay 
plugin that can delay the left 
and right channels by 
different, small amounts to 
loosen percussion elements or 
add stereo width. 

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect 

Description 

Parameters 

Values 

Reverb Small, 
Reverb Medium, 
Reverb Large 

These are spatial effects, 
designed to emulate playing 
audio in an empty space, 
ranging from a small room to a 
large hall. 
The settings for the three 
effects are identical. 

Spring Reverb 

This is a spatial effect, designed 
to emulate the sound of a 
spring reverb tank. 

HP Filter 

LP Filter 

BP Filter 

Bus Compressor 

This effect applies a high-pass 
filter, suppressing frequencies 
below the cutoff point. 

This effect applies a low-pass 
filter, suppressing frequencies 
above the cutoff point. 

This effect applies a band-pass 
filter, suppressing frequencies 
above and below the cutoff 
point. 

This is a transparent 
compressor, able to perform 
substantial volume adjustments 
without artifacts. 

K1 – Pre-Delay 

0 – 250 ms 

K2 – Time 

K3 – Mix 

0.4 – 71.5 s, +inf s 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – ER/Tail Mix 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K2 – Density 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K3 – Low Cut 

1 – 1000 Hz 

K1 – Pre-Delay  

0 – 250 ms 

K2 – Time  

K3 – Mix  

1.0 – 10.0 s 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Width 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K2 – Diffusion 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K3 – Low Cut 

20.0 Hz – 1.00 kHz 

K1 – Frequency 

10 – 19999 (Hz) 

K2 – Resonance 

0 – 100 

K1 – Frequency 

22 – 19999 (Hz) 

K2 – Resonance 

0 – 100 

K1 – Frequency 

55.0 Hz – 20.0 kHz 

K2 – Resonance 

0.7 – 20.0 

K1 – Attack  

K2 – Release 

K3 – Threshold 

SHIFT+K1 – Ratio 

0 – 100 

0 – 100 

-50 – 0 

1 – 20 

SHIFT+K2 – Output 

-6 – 24 

SHIFT+K3 – Mix 

0 – 100 

Limiter 

Pumper 

This effect changes the 
dynamics of a signal by 
boosting the entire signal so 
that the quietest parts are 
louder but peaks above a set 
level are limited. 

This effect creates a rhythmic 
pumping effect, similar to that 
of sidechain compression. 

K1 – Gain 

K2 – Ceiling 

K3 – Release 

K1 – Speed  

K2 – Shape 

K3 – Depth 

-12.0 – 36.0 dB 

-24.0 – 0.0 dB 

10.0 ms – 10.0 s 

Bar, 1/2, 1/2T, 1/4, 1/4T, 1/8, 
1/8T, 1/16, 1/16T, 1/32, 1/32T 

0 – 100% 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Attack 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K2 – Hold 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K3 – Release 

0 – 100% 

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect 

Description 

Parameters 

Values 

Transient 

Noise Gate 

Amp Sim 

This effect can be used to 
shape and accentuate the 
impact of percussive tracks and 
more. 

This effect is similar to a 
compressor, but instead of 
attenuating audio signal that 
rises above a threshold, a noise 
gate attenuates audio signal 
that falls below a threshold by a 
set amount. This can help 
reduce background noise in 
your audio signal. 

This effect simulates guitar and 
bass amplifiers with a wide 
range of available cabinet 
models and tone shaping 
options. 

Tube Drive 

This effect is designed to 
reproduce the sound of an 
overdriven tube amplifier. 

K1 – Attack 

K2 – Shape 

-100 – +100% 

0 – 100% 

K3 – Sustain 

-100 – +100% 

K1 – Threshold  

-120.0 – 0.0 dB 

K2 – Depth 

0 – -120 dB 

SHIFT+K1 – Attack 

0.01 – 1000.00 ms 

SHIFT+K2 – Hold 

0 – 1000 ms 

SHIFT+K3 – Release 

1.00 – 3000.00 ms 

K1 – Cab Model 

D.I., Brit, 1x8”, 1x12”, 2x10”, 
2x12, 4x10“, 4x12“, 1x15“ 
Bass, 4x10” Bass, Radio 

K2 – Drive 

K3 – Soft Clip 

0.0 – 11.0 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Bass 

-12.0 – 12.0 dB 

SHIFT+K2 – Mid 

-12.0 – 12.0 dB 

SHIFT+K3 – Treble 

-12.0 – 12.0 dB 

K1 – Drive 

0 – 100% 

K2 – Headroom 

-30.0 – 0.0 dB 

K3 – Saturation 

0 – 100% 

Soft Clipper 

This effect produces a range of 
saturation effects, from subtle 
warmth to harsh distortion. 

K1 – Drive 

K2 – Shape 

1.0 – 10000.0% 

Tanh, Sine, Parabolic 

K3 – Mix 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – True Peak 

Off, On 

SHIFT+K2 – Rel Time 

0.1 – 100.0 ms 

SHIFT+K3 – Post Lvl 

-Inf, -80.0 – 0.0 dB 

Ensemble 

This effect applies fluid, 
shimmering modulation effects 
to the audio signal. 

K1 – Rate 

K2 – Depth 

0.1 – 10.0 Hz 

0.00 – 24.00 ms 

Multi-Chorus 

This effect applies a thick, 
complex chorus effect to your 
audio signal. 

K3 – Mix 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Delay 

0.00 – 24.00 ms 

SHIFT+K2 – Shimmer 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K3 – Width 

0 – 100% 

K1 – Rate 

K2 – Depth 

K3 – Mix 

0.1 – 10.0 Hz 

0.00 – 24.00 ms 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Voices 

3, 4, 6 

SHIFT+K2 – Delay 

0.00 – 24.00 ms 

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect 

Phaser 

Flanger 

Auto-Wah  

Description 

Parameters 

Values 

This effect applies modulated 
filters to the audio signal, 
resulting in a sharp, “sweeping” 
sound. 

K1 – Rate 

K2 – Depth 

K3 – Mix 

0.10 – 10.00 Hz 

0 – 100% 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Model 

Vibe, Stone, Ninety, Tron 

SHIFT+K2 – Feedback 

0 – 100% 

This effect applies a short, 
modulating delay to the audio 
signal, resulting in a signature 
“whooshing” sound. 

K1 – Rate 

K2 – Depth 

K3 – Mix 

0.02 – 10.00 Hz 

0 – 100% 

0 – 100% 

This effect is a low-pass filter 
modulated by an envelope that 
yields a classic funky “wah-
wah”- like sound. The envelope 
is triggered by the incoming 
signal’s amplitude.  

SHIFT+K1 – Feedback 

0 – 100% 

K1 – Sens 

K2 – Resonance 

K3 – Mix 

0 – 100 

0 – 100 

0 – 100% 

SHIFT+K1 – Center 

0 – 100 

SHIFT+K2 – Attack 

0 – 100 

SHIFT+K3 – Release 

0 – 100 

Auto-Pan 

This effect uses an LFO to move 
the incoming signal back and 
forth across the stereo field, 
creating a rotary effect. 

K1 – Rate 

K3 – Mix 

Vintage 
Emulator 

This effect emulates the sonic 
qualities of different vintage 
hardware.  

K1 – Type 

0 – 100 

0 – 100% 

MPC3000, MPC60, SP1200, 
SP1200Ring 

Vinyl Emulator 

This effect emulates the sonic 
qualities of a vinyl record. 

Tape Emulator 

This effect emulates the sonic 
qualities of a cassette tape. 

K1 – Tone 

K2 – Crackle 

K3 – Pitch 

K1 – Wow 

K2 – Noise 

K3 – Pitch 

0 – 100 

0 – 100% 

10 – 100% 

10 – 100% 

10 – 100% 

20 – 100% 

55 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compressor 

The  dedicated  Compressor  effect  can  be  used  to  change  the  dynamic  range  of  your  signal  by  automatically 
reducing its gain if it exceeds a certain level. This is primarily a “pumping” compressor, designed to apply sharp 
ducking, but can also be used for more subtle peak-limiting.  

 + 

To open the Compressor page, press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 5 – COMPRESSOR.  

Press the B1 Function Button to activate or deactivate the Color effect for the compressor. This applies a slight 
parallel bass boost when activated, as well as minor pitch instability and harmonic saturation for a classic “tape 
warmth” effect. 

Press the B3 Function Button to Bypass or engage the compressor effect.  

Turn the K1 Knob to adjust the Attack phase of the compressor (0.100 – 150 ms). This determines how much 
time it takes to start applying compression and reducing the incoming signal gain after the audio signal passes 
above the threshold. High settings may allow some signal peaks to bypass the compressor.  

Turn the K2 Knob to adjust the Release phase of the compressor (3.0 – 300 ms). This determines how much time 
it takes for the compressor to stop applying compression after the audio signal passes below the threshold. 

Turn the K3 Knob to adjust the compressor Amount (0.00 – 100.00%). This determines how much compression 
is applied, and combines the threshold and ratio parameters of traditional compressor effects.  

Press and hold SHIFT and turn the K3 Knob to adjust the amount of In Boost applied. This increase the incoming 
volume to the compressor, allowing it to work more aggressively. 

Note: The traditional makeup gain compressor parameter is automatically calculated based on input level and 
overall parameter settings. 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Menus 

Input Configuration 

The Input Configuration menu allows you to select and adjust your audio input sources for sampling.  

 + 

To enter the Input Configuration menu, press and hold SHIFT and press the SAMPLE button. 

Source:  
•  Mic: The built-in microphone, located next to the ENCODER. 
•  Rear: The rear panel Audio Inputs. Selecting this option enables both the 1/L and 2/R inputs to record in stereo. 
•  Rear L: The 1/L Audio Input on the rear panel. 
•  Rear R: The 2/R Audio Input on the rear panel. 
•  Resample: Re-recorded audio from MPC Sample. You can use this to record a sequence onto a single pad, 

freeing up other pads for additional sounds. 

•  USB: Audio from a device connected to MPC Sample’s rear panel USB-C PORT. Selecting this option records 

stereo audio from the USB device. 

•  USB L: Left-channel audio from a device connected to the USB-C PORT. 
•  USB R: Right-channel audio from a device connected to the USB-C PORT. 

Monitor: 
•  Off: Audio from the selected Source is never monitored. 
•  Auto: Audio from the selected Source is monitored only while Sample Record Mode is in focus. 
•  On: Audio from the selected Source is always monitored. 

Threshold: This setting determines the minimum audio level (-96 – 0 dB) from the selected audio input Source 
that must be reached to automatically trigger recording.  

Rec Length: This setting determines the length of your recording. When set to FREE, you can record with no set 
length. When set to SEQ, the recording length is locked to the Sequence length. If SEQ is selected and playback 
is active, recording begins at the end of the current loop. 

Rec Input Effects: This setting determines whether Knob FX triggered during recording are recorded as part of 
the audio sample (ON) or are excluded from the recording (Off). 

All these settings (except Rec Input Effects) can also be adjusted in the Sample Record menu.  

To close the Input Configuration menu, press the B3 Function Button to move back to the previous page. 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fader 

The Fader menu allows you to select the current parameter controlled by the Fader. 

 + 

To open the FADER menu, press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 9 – FADER. 

Press the B3 Function Button to turn the Fader control on or off.  

Turn the ENCODER to browse the following Fader functions, and then press it to select. 
•  Pad Volume: Adjust the volume level of the selected pad. 
•  Pad Pan: Adjust the stereo panning of the selected pad. 
•  Pad Tune: Adjust the Semi Tune value of the selected pad. 
•  Pad Amp Attack: Adjust the Attack value of the Amplitude Envelope for the selected pad. 
•  Pad Amp Decay/Release: Adjust the Decay or Release value of the Amplitude Envelope for the selected 
pad. This controls Decay if the pad is set to One Shot playback, and controls Release if the pad is set to Note 
On playback. 

•  Pad Filter Cutoff: Adjust the Cutoff value of the Filter for the selected pad. 
•  Kit Volume: Adjust the volume of the entire kit. 

Similar  to  the  K1–K3  Knobs,  the  FADER  has  absolute  position  only  and  uses  soft  takeover  when  switching 
between controls. This means that as you are moving between different controls, the fader’s position may not 
align with the current setting of the new parameter. 

The brightness of the Fader LED indicates the relative position of the current parameter value. The brighter the 
LED, the higher the value (when Pad Pan or Pad Tune are selected, the Fader LED is brightest at the center, and 
dims at both the top and bottom). Move the fader until the LED begins changing brightness again, indicating the 
fader has regained control of the current parameter value. 

Press the B1 Function Button to move back to the previous page. 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time Correct 

The Time Correct menu contains settings that help quantize the events in your project. This makes your notes 
snap to a grid at a defined value. 

 + 

To open the Time Correct menu, press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 14 – TIME CORRECT. 

Press a PAD to select it for timing correction. Selected pads are highlighted on the display, and the pad lights up 
while viewing the Time Correct menu.  

You can also press the B2 Function Button to select all pads at the same time.  

Turn  the  K1 Knob  to  adjust  the  quantization  (Q) value.  This  determines  the time  division  that  each  bar  of  the 
sequence is divided into, and how note events snap to those divisions. For example, if the Q is set to 1/16, all 
events will snap to the nearest 1/16 note on the grid.  

Turn the K2 Knob to adjust the Shift value. This setting adjusts all selected events forward or backward in the 
sequence by a small amount. This can allow you to create subtle timing variations that give your events a more 
“humanized” feel. 

Turn the K3 Knob to adjust the Swing value. This setting lets you “shuffle” your beats by shifting the timing of 
notes, so they have a triplet-like feel instead of falling on the downbeat. 

To apply the Time Correct settings, press the B3 Function Button (Do It!). All recorded events for the selected 
pads are adjusted according to the settings. 

Tips: Play your sequence before and after applying Time Correct settings to hear the difference. If you aren’t 
happy with the results, you can undo the settings by holding SHIFT and pressing -/UNDO.  

The  Q  and  Swing  values  are  global  and  will  remain  at  the  settings  shown  here  whether  they  are  applied  to 
recorded events or not. For example, changing the Q value in this menu also changes it in Sequence Mode. For 
the Swing value, the current setting will also affect how Note Repeat functions.  

To exit the Time Correct menu without applying the settings, press the B1 Function Button (Cancel). 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MIDI Configuration 

The MIDI Configuration menu allows you to adjust how MPC Sample sends and receives MIDI and CV data. You 
can also use this menu to reset MPC Sample’s settings and data. 

 + 

Press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 8 – MIDI CONFIG to open the MIDI Configuration menu. 

Use the ENCODER to scroll through the following options. Press the ENCODER to select a setting, and then turn 
it to adjust the value. Press the ENCODER again to confirm. 

Setting 

MIDI Port 

MIDI In Channel 

Description 

This setting determines the active MIDI port for 
sending and receiving MIDI data. External refers to 
the 1/8” MIDI IN and MIDI OUT ports on the rear 
panel. 

Values 

External, USB 

This setting determines the MIDI Channel on which 
MIDI input data is received. Select All to receive MIDI 
input data from all channels, or select a specific 
channel. 

All, 1–16 

MIDI Out Channel 

This setting determines the MIDI Channel on which 
MIDI output data is sent. 

1–16 

Pad MIDI In 

Pad MIDI Out 

MIDI Sync In 

MIDI Sync Out 

MIDI Thru 

Receive Program Change 

This setting determines whether MIDI Input can be 
used to trigger the pads. 

Off, On 

This setting determines whether MIDI Output is sent 
from the pads. 

Never, Always, Empty 

This setting determines whether MPC Sample 
receives MIDI Sync information, and what type of 
information if enabled. 

This setting determines whether MPC Sample sends 
MIDI Sync information, and what type of information 
if enabled. 

This setting determines whether the MIDI OUT port 
also functions as a Thru port. When set to ON, MIDI 
data received by the MIDI IN port is also forwarded 
through the MIDI OUT port.  

This setting determines whether MPC Sample 
receives MIDI Program Change messages. When 
enabled, these messages can be used to trigger 
sequences.  

Off, Midi Clock, MTC 

Off, Midi Clock, MTC 

Off, On 

Off, Sequence 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Setting 

CV/Sync Out 

CV/Sync Base 

CV/Sync Division 

Description 

This setting determines whether MPC Sample send 
CV/Sync output data via the SYNC OUT port.  

Values 

Off, On 

This setting determines the base CV clock resolution. 
A value of 1 is equal to 1 pulse per quarter note. 

1–8 

This setting multiplies the CV/Sync Base setting by 
the given value. 

1–24 

Select RESET FACTORY SETTINGS to reset all settings on MPC Sample to their factory defaults and restart the 
device. Press the B3 Function Button to select YES to continue with the reset, or press the B1 Function Button to 
select NO to return to the MIDI Config menu. 

Select RESET FACTORY DATA to delete all internal user content and restart MPC Sample. Press the B3 Function 
Button to select YES to continue with the reset, or press the B1 Function Button to select NO to return to the 
MIDI Config menu. 

IMPORTANT: Doing so will remove all user content saved to the internal drive and restore MPC Sample to the 
factory default content. This includes any content in an unsaved user project, including the current project, and 
this action cannot be undone.  

61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project 

The Project menu lets you save and load your projects, as well as manage external microSD card storage.  

 + 

Press and hold SHIFT and press PAD 16 – PROJECT to open the Project menu.  

Use the ENCODER to browse the available options, and then press it to select.  

Load Project 

Select this option to load projects and kits.  
•  Demos: This category includes demo projects, including the default startup project. These projects are great 

for exploring the range of sounds and styles that you can create with MPC Sample. 

•  Kits: This category includes entire kits. Press the ENCODER to load the kit along with four default sequences, 

or press the B3 Function Button (Load Kit) to only load the kit samples with no sequence data.  

•  User: This category includes user-saved projects on the internal drive. 

Save Project 

Select this option to save the current project. 

Turn the ENCODER to scroll through letters and numbers. Press the ENCODER to select the desired character 
and move to the next character. 

Press and hold SHIFT to access capital letters. 

Press the -/+ buttons to move between characters. 

Press the B2 Function Button to erase the current character. 

Press and hold SHIFT and press the B2 Function Button to erase all characters at the same time. 

When you have finished editing the project title, press the B3 Function Button (Do It!) to start the export. 

To exit the project save page, press the B1 Function Button (Cancel). 

Note: MPC Sample contains an automatic saving system. As you work on your project, your progress is saved in 
the background, so if you turn MPC Sample off and on, your project reloads at the last saved state. Saving your 
project in the Project menu copies the locally stored files to a new location, either internal or external. Because of 
this system, performing certain actions such as chopping, extracting, or copying on long samples may take a short 
time. 

62 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Project  

Select this option to start a new project. On the page that appears, press the B3 Function Button to confirm that 
you want to clear the current project and start a new project. Press the B1 Function Button to cancel and return 
to the Project menu. 

SD Card Access  

Select this option to access a microSD card (not included) inserted into the microSD Card Slot on MPC Sample 
from a computer connected via USB. This allows you to easily transfer samples, songs, and project files between 
MPC Sample and your computer. 

The microSD card will mount as an external drive on your computer. You are unable to use other modes while in 
SD Card Access mode. 

When you have finished transferring files, make sure you safely eject the microSD card drive from your computer 
before exiting SD Card Access mode. 

Once the drive is ejected, press the B1 Function Button to exit SD Card Access mode. 

63 

 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 

Technical Specifications 

Hardware and I/O 

Storage Capacity 

Memory 

Pads 

Display 

I/O 

Mic/Speaker 

Buttons 

Knobs 

Fader 

Power 

Battery 

8 GB Internal Drive, including ~2 GB Factory Data 
Expandable via microSD Card Slot 

2 GB 

16 RGB-lit velocity-sensitive MPC Pads with aftertouch 

2.4” (6.1 cm) Full-color LCD with high-resolution waveform editing 

Input: 
•  2 1/4” [6.35 mm] TRS Audio Inputs (Mic/Line-Level) 

Output: 
•  2 1/4” [6.35 mm] TRS Audio Outputs (Line-Level) 
•  1 1/8” [3.5 mm] TRS Headphones Output 

MIDI: 
•  1 1/8” [3.5 mm] TRS MIDI DIN Input Port 
•  1 1/8” [3.5 mm] TRS MIDI DIN Output Port 

Sync Out : 
•  1 1/8” [3.5 mm] TRS CV/Gate (with configurable sync rates) 

1 USB Type-C® Port  
•  Power 
•  Audio In/Out 
•  MIDI In/Out 
•  SD Card Access 

Built-in microphone and 3-watt speaker for portable standalone recording and 
monitoring 

11 bi-color LED buttons  
8 single-color LED buttons 
4 unlit buttons 

3 270° knobs 
1 360° encoder with push 

1 30 mm fader 

via USB type-C  
(bus powered, or connected to wall adapter or power bank [5V, 2A; sold separately]) 

Type: Lithium-Ion 
Life: Approximately 5 hours of continuous playback. Battery life may vary depending 
on the features used. 

Dimensions  
(width x length x height) 

7.6” x 9.3” x 2.0” 
19.4 x 23.6 x 5.0 cm 

Weight 

2.03 lbs. 

0.92 kg 

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Format and Support 

Polyphony 

Disk Streaming 

Recordable Data 

32 stereo voices 

Fast onboard disk streaming (up to 32 voices) 

16 samples x 8 banks, per project 

16 sequences x 8 banks, per project 

No project limit 

Maximum Sampling Time 

20 minutes, per sample 

Recall Recording 

30 seconds of audio or pad performance to sequence 

Import Format 

.wav, .mp3, .aif/.aiff, .snd, .s1s, .s3s, .flac, .ogg 

Processing Sampling Frequency 

44.1 kHz, 32-bit float 

Supporting Sampling Frequencies 

File Import: 24 or 16-bit; 44.1, 48, or 96 kHz 

Recording: 24-bit, 44.1 kHz 

Key Software Features 

Sequencer 

MPC Sequencer with Real-Time Swing 

960 pulses per quarter note 

Sampling 

Record 

Effects 

Effects Routes 

Fast sample-to-pad workflow from a wide range of sources (Mic, Audio 
In, USB [Mac/Win/iOS/Android], Resample). 

Threshold-controlled sampling 

Fixed-length sampling to ensure accurate loops 

With classic MPC Note Repeat, Sequence Recall (MIDI Retrospective 
Record), and Sample Recall 

60+ different FX spread across four effect engines: 
•  Pad FX 
•  Knob FX 
•  Flex Beat 
•  Color-Compressor 

Main Output, Input, and Per-Pad 
• 
Internal (Main Out, Knob FX per-pad) 
•  Real-time processing of External Inputs 
• 

Input record Knob FX 

Advanced Sample Editing 

With Chop Mode, lazy-chopping, auto-snapping, real-time looping, and 
warping. 

Fast Workflow 

Fader Control 

Song Mode 

MPC3 Support 

Fast one-touch functionality, for intuitive sampling, recording, and 
performance. 

Assignable fader for customizable controls over pad parameters. 

For easy arrangement of songs and export. 

MPC Sample projects can be loaded in MPC3 to continue production in-
the-box. 

Specifications are subject to change without notice. 

Model: AC50 

65 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Trademarks & Licenses 

Akai Professional and MPC are trademarks of inMusic Brands, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. 

macOS is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.  

microSD is a registered trademark of SD-3C, LLC. 

Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.  

All other product names, company names, trademarks, or trade names are those of their respective owners. 

66 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
